feat: add no-missing-link-fragments rule (#380)
eslint/markdown: docs/rules/no-missing-link-fragments.md

Reviewer: I think overall the recent changes to this file went in the wrong direction. Please take a look at my comments and please double-check the format with other rule docs.

# no-missing-link-fragments

Disallow link fragments that don't exist in the document.

## Rule Details

This rule verifies that all link fragments (using the `#` syntax in URLs) reference valid headings that exist in the document. Link fragments are commonly used to navigate to specific sections within a document, and when they're invalid, users won't be directed to the intended location.

## Options

This rule has an options object with the following properties:

* `ignoreCase: boolean` - When `true`, fragment case will be ignored when comparing to heading IDs (default `false`).
* `allowPattern: string` - Regular expression pattern for fragments to ignore (default `""`).

Example configuration:

> ```json

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```js
```

Should we use `json` for the example? I think using `js` is more appropriate, since ESLint v9 only supports `js` and `ts` configuration files.

Author: Changing the type to JS gives eslint error as below:

<img width="628" alt="Screenshot 2025-05-20 at 11 31 14 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5e628144-ce07-4107-86e3-d72dfc890c3f" />

# no-missing-link-fragments

Disallow link fragments that don't exist in the document.

## Rule Details

This rule verifies that all link fragments (using the `#` syntax in URLs) reference valid headings that exist in the document. Link fragments are commonly used to navigate to specific sections within a document, and when they're invalid, users won't be directed to the intended location.

> ### Options

Reviewer 3: This should be h2, 

```suggestion
## Options
```

This rule has an options object with the following properties (parameter naming follows markdownlint's MD051 rule for compatibility):

> * `ignoreCase`: Boolean, default `false` - When `true`, fragment case will be ignored when comparing to heading IDs
> * `allowPattern`: String, default `""` - Regular expression pattern for fragments to ignore

Reviewer 3: To keep the option naming consistent with other rules.

```suggestion
* `ignoreCase: boolean` - When `true`, fragment case will be ignored when comparing to heading IDs (default `false`).
* `allowPattern: string` - Regular expression pattern for fragments to ignore (default `""`).
```

Example configuration:

```json
{
  "markdown/no-missing-link-fragments": ["error", {
    "ignoreCase": true,
    "allowPattern": "^section-"
  }]
}
```

### Examples

#### ❌ Incorrect

```md
[Invalid link](#non-existent-section)

## Introduction

[Also invalid](#INTRODUCTION)
```

In the examples above:
- `#non-existent-section` does not match any heading in the document
- `#INTRODUCTION` doesn't match the actual heading ID which would be `#introduction` (unless `ignoreCase` is set to `true`)

#### ✅ Correct

```md
[Valid link](#introduction)

## Introduction

[Also valid](#heading-with-spaces)

## Heading with spaces

<!-- With ignoreCase: true -->
[Case insensitive link](#INTRODUCTION)

## Introduction

<!-- With allowPattern: "^section-" -->
[Ignored pattern link](#section-123)

> ```

Reviewer 3: Let's improve the example section by separating the types of examples for each configuration. For example:

- Let's add the basic incorrect/correct code examples for `markdown/no-missing-link-fragments: "error"` in the Rule details section.

- Under the options section, we can add separate example code blocks for:
    - Examples for **correct code** when configured as `"markdown/no-missing-link-fragments": ["error", { ignoreCase: true } ]`
    
    
     ```md
     ## Introduction

     [Case insensitive link](#INTRODUCTION)
     ```
     - Examples for **correct code** when configured as `"markdown/no-missing-link-fragments": ["error", { allowPattern: "^section-" } ]` 
     
     ```md
     [Ignored pattern link](#section-123)
     ```

### Further Reading

> This rule is similar to the markdownlint MD051 rule, which checks that link fragments are valid. It ensures that all links that use fragment identifiers point to actual headings in the document.

Reviewer 3: Let's remove this section in favor of the `Prior Art` section.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Prior Art

- [MD051 - Link fragments should be valid](https://github.com/DavidAnson/markdownlint/blob/main/doc/md051.md)
```

Reviewer 3: Also let's add this section at the bottom after When not to use it section.

## When Not To Use It

> You might want to disable this rule if you're linking to fragments that are generated by other means, such as manually created anchor elements in HTML within the markdown. Alternatively, you can use the `allowPattern` option to exclude specific fragment patterns from validation. 

Reviewer 3: Let's update the language for consistency with other rule documentations:

```suggestion
If you aren't concerned with fragments generated by other means, like manually created anchor elements in HTML within the markdown, you can safely disable this rule.
```

# no-missing-link-fragments

Disallow link fragments that don't exist in the document.

## Background

> Ensures that link fragments (URLs that start with `#`) reference valid headings or anchors in the document. This rule helps prevent broken internal links.

Author: Added

# no-missing-link-fragments

> Ensures that link fragments (URLs that start with `#`) reference valid headings or anchors in the document. This rule helps prevent broken internal links.

Reviewer: For our documentation, this should be a single sentence. I think the original was fine.

```suggestion
Disallow link fragments that don't exist in the document.
```

> ## Rule Details

Reviewer: For our documentation format, we also have a "Background" section that gives some context as to what the rule is meant to address. Please see other rules in the plugin for examples.

This rule is triggered when a link fragment does not match any of the fragments that are automatically generated for headings in a document or explicitly defined via HTML anchors or custom heading IDs.

Examples of **incorrect** code for this rule:

```markdown
<!-- eslint markdown/no-missing-link-fragments: "error" -->

[Invalid Link](#non-existent-heading)

# Some Heading
[Case Mismatch](#SOME-HEADING) <!-- Default: case-sensitive -->
```

> ### Correct Code Examples

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Examples of **correct** code for this rule:
```

    ```json
    {
      "ignoreCase": true
    }
    ```

<!-- With ignoreCase: true -->
[Case insensitive link](#INTRODUCTION)
* `allowPattern` (string, default: `""`):
    A regular expression string. If a link fragment matches this pattern, it will be ignored by the rule. This is useful for fragments that are dynamically generated or handled by other tools.

## Introduction
    ```json
    {
      "allowPattern": "^figure-"
    }
    ```

<!-- With allowPattern: "^section-" -->
[Ignored pattern link](#section-123)
```
    Example: If `allowPattern` is `"^temp-"`, links like `[Link](#temp-section)` will not be checked.

## When Not To Use It

If you aren't concerned with fragments generated by other means, like manually created anchor elements in HTML within the markdown, you can safely disable this rule.
You might consider disabling this rule if:

* You are using a Markdown processor or static site generator that has a significantly different algorithm for generating heading IDs, and this rule produces too many false positives.
* You have many dynamically generated links or fragments that cannot be easily covered by the `allowPattern` option.

## Further Reading

> ### Prior Art

Reviewer: We should keep this section.

> * [CommonMark Specification](https://spec.commonmark.org/)

Reviewer: This link doesn't point to anything specific about link fragments?
